README.md, before:

# MathPad

<!-- TODO: set up all the services needed for these badges -->
<!-- <p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/CallumJHays/mathpad/actions?query=workflow%3ACI">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/CallumJHays/mathpad/CI/main?label=CI&logo=github&style=flat-square" alt="CI Status" >
  </a>
  <a href="https://mathpad.readthedocs.io">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/mathpad.svg?logo=read-the-docs&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Documentation Status">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/CallumJHays/mathpad">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/CallumJHays/mathpad.svg?logo=codecov&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Test coverage percentage">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://python-poetry.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/packaging-poetry-299bd7?style=flat-square&logo=data:image/png;base64,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" alt="Poetry">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/ambv/black">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat-square" alt="black">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white&style=flat-square" alt="pre-commit">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/mathpad/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mathpad.svg?logo=python&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="PyPI Version">
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mathpad.svg?style=flat-square&logo=python&amp;logoColor=fff" alt="Supported Python versions">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/mathpad.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License">
</p> -->

Type-hinted, simplified interface to `sympy` for solving engineering, science and maths problems.

Automatically handles unit conversion & dimensionality checking ('spellcheck') for math operations.

Also includes scipy-based simulation functions (RK46, etc) for evaluating nonlinear models.

## Example

A car is driving at 5 miles per hour. The driver hits the brakes,
decelerating at a rate of 2 meters per second squared. How long will the car take to come to come to a halt?

```python
from mathpad import *

t = "t" * seconds  # "t seconds"

velocity = 5 * miles / hour  # "5 miles/hour"

deceleration = 2 * m / s ** 2  # "2 meters/second**2"

solution = solve(t, t == velocity / deceleration)
print(solution) # "Solution(t = 1.1176 seconds)"
```

Check out more examples in the [Examples directory](./examples/)

## Installation

Install via pip:

`pip install mathpad`

<!-- ## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)): -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<!-- This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome! -->

## Credits

This package was created with
[Cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter) and the
[browniebroke/cookiecutter-pypackage](https://github.com/browniebroke/cookiecutter-pypackage)
project template.

Commit message:

docs: update walkthrough and readme

README.md, after:

# MathPad

<!-- TODO: set up all the services needed for these badges -->
<!-- <p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/CallumJHays/mathpad/actions?query=workflow%3ACI">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/CallumJHays/mathpad/CI/main?label=CI&logo=github&style=flat-square" alt="CI Status" >
  </a>
  <a href="https://mathpad.readthedocs.io">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/mathpad.svg?logo=read-the-docs&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Documentation Status">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/CallumJHays/mathpad">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/CallumJHays/mathpad.svg?logo=codecov&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Test coverage percentage">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://python-poetry.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/packaging-poetry-299bd7?style=flat-square&logo=data:image/png;base64,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" alt="Poetry">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/ambv/black">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat-square" alt="black">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white&style=flat-square" alt="pre-commit">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/mathpad/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mathpad.svg?logo=python&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="PyPI Version">
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mathpad.svg?style=flat-square&logo=python&amp;logoColor=fff" alt="Supported Python versions">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/mathpad.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License">
</p> -->

MathPad is a a Python library that makes it easy to solve engineering, science and maths problems.

MathPad is ideal for engineering students and academics seeking to easily check their work or better understand the mathematical models and equations they are working with.

[Sandbox Demo](https://callumjhays.github.io/mathpad/lab?path=Walkthrough.ipynb)




Features:
- Intuitive interface for those unfamiliar with Python
- Easy-to-use construction of systems of equations - goodbye hand calculations!
- Self-explanatory latex output
- Automatic dimensionality validity checking
- Automatic unit conversion
- Easy simulation of differential systems of equations / initial value problem
- Growing library of equations and constants to utilize

## Documentation

Currently the only documentation is `Walkthrough.ipynb`. You can access it on the [JupyterLite Sandbox Site here](https://callumjhays.github.io/mathpad/lab?path=Walkthrough.ipynb)


## Installation

Install via pip:

`pip install mathpad`

<!-- ## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)): -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<!-- This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome! -->

## Credits

This package was created with
[Cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter) and the
[browniebroke/cookiecutter-pypackage](https://github.com/browniebroke/cookiecutter-pypackage)
project template.
